
# Xendit QA Assessment Instructions

:point_right: <sub> Please read the below instructions carefully to understand the purpose of the assessment, assessment expectations, evaluation criteria and tools to be used </sub>

## Purpose of the assessment

The purpose of this assessment is to evaluate the technical competency of the candidate in QA automation field along with the analytical and problem solving skills

## Assessment expectations

This assessment is created with the objective to validate the automation scripting skills of the candidate. Expectations from this assessment are the following

*- 1. Candidate shall come up with the different test scenarios - such as positive, negative and boundary values*

*- 2. Candidate shall automate the generated test scenarios using any of the below mentioned automation tools sets*

:pushpin: Please note the automation script to be generated by using the online calculator application NOT by using the script variables(e.g automate clicking the following buttons : "1", "+" , "2" in the online calculator screen and validate the expected outcome is shown as "3")

## Evaluation criteria
	
We would use the following criteria to evaluate the assessment

*Test scenario writing skills* : positive, negative and boundary conditions

*Automation script generation* : Usage of proper pass and fail conditions, report generation, screenshot capturing

*Solutioning skills* : Reaching the solutions by overcoming technical challenges using alternate method and work around solutions

## Tools to be used
	
You may use any of the below mentioned technologies to develop the automation scripts. Along with these, you may use any of the java based technologies as well.

*Cucumber*

*Selenium / Cypress*

*Javascripts / Java*

*Cucumber-js*

:bulb: You may use your own automation framework to build the automation scripts. As well as, we have provided a sample automation framework to help you get started with the scripting. Follow the below instructions to download and use the Xendit automation framework

**How to use the existing framework**

1. Clone/ download the complete framework repository from the following github path - https://github.com/xendit/xendit-qa-assessment

2. You will find the following folders in the extracted folder. The names and its purpose are highlighted below

	Folder name: *features*

	Purpose : Contains the feature file where the cucumber scripts are written using gherkin syntax. Use this file to 	update the feature that are going to be automated using ‘Scenario Outline’,’given’, ‘When’ and ‘Then’ keywords

	Folder name : *shared-objects*

	Purpose : Maintain all shared objects within the scripts. such as test data, environment details,etc. This can be 	used if required, not necessarily to be updated 

 	Folder name: *step-definitions*
 
	Purpose : Step definitions file( function definitions). A Step Definition is a Java/javascript method with an 		expression that links it to one or more Gherkin steps. When Cucumber executes a Gherkin step in a scenario, it will 	look for a matching step definition to execute.
	
3. You may start building the automation scripts by updating the .feature file located under feature folder
4. Write the detailed steps and associated methods in step definition file locate under step definition folder
5. Use nodejs to execute and test the scripts
6. Please note that the "online calculator" application is built using iframe objects. So, you may have find difficulties in finding the object locators and handling it in the scripts. Take this up as a challange and find an alternate solution to automate the same.

Still having questions?, please feel free to reach out to sandy@xendit.co!

Thanks for reading the instructions!

Happy coding and best wishes! :+1: :dart:
